.TH CREATEIMAGE 1L "TeachOS Build Utilities" "" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
createimage \- create operating system image suitable for placement on a boot disk
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B createimage
[\-\-extended] [\-\-vm] <bootblock> <file> ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page
documents the
.BR createimage
program used to produce an image suitable for placement on a boot
disk.  When run, the result is placed in a file called
.B image
residing in the directory the command was invoked.  The
.B image
can be placed on a boot disk by issuing
.B \'cat image > /dev/sda\'
on the shell command-line, assuming you have supplied the bootblock code
as one of the executable components. (Note: depending on whether you have
other SCSI devices on your system or not, the USB flash device could be
detected as /dev/sdb or /dev/sdc ...)

.B createimage
parses each of the given executable files according to the ELF
specification.  Thus, the executable files must be compliant to the
ELF standard of position independant linking.

The format of the 
.B image
is fairly simple. The first 512 bytes of the file contains the code for
the bootblock. The memory image of the entire OS follows the bootblock.
The size of the OS (in sectors) is stored as a "short int" at location 3
in the
.B image.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I "\-\-extended"
Print extended information useful for debugging the operating system
image, process placement in memory and so on.  Provides detailed information
on the size and position of each executable component in the 
.B image
file.

.TP
.I "\-\-vm"
This option tells 
.B createimage
to produce an 
.B image
that can be easily tailored to a virtual memory operating system.  A
structure, called
.B directory
, is placed at the end of the 
.B image
file, describing where in physical memory the processes should be placed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.B objdump(1), gcc(1), ld(1), gas(1)

Check the
.I ELF Documentation
available at the TeachOS homepage 
.B http://www.cs.uit.no/teachos/ 
for details on parsing of the executable components.
.SH BUGS
The 
.I \-\-extended
switch must be placed prior to the
.I \-\-vm 
swith on the command-line.
